# MCMV

Herpesviruses are ubiquitous, opportunistic pathogens, characterized by the establishment of life-long infections in their natural hosts. As such, they have developed elegant strategies to infect, evade and persist in the face of host intrinsic, innate, and adaptive immunity. Much of our work focuses on the pathogenesis of betaherpeviruses, which includes the human pathogen Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV). HCMV is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals and is the leading infectious cause of congenital birth defects in the United States.  Owing to the strict species specificity of betaherpesviruses, Murine Cytomegalovirus (MCMV), a powerful model system for HCMV pathogenesis, is popular in CMV-host interactions. Our interests lie in understanding host innate immune defenses and the mechanisms by which MCMV, and a growing number of other pathogens including reovirus, influenza, and vaccinia virus, thwart these defenses. Combining techniques from genetics, molecular and cell biology, virology, and immunology, we aim to develop a better understanding of these molecular mechanisms, which in turn will allow us to exploit them to improve detection and treatment of viral diseases.

MCMV virus is cloned into bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC), whichi is easily mutated and tested in functional related research. In order to test the different mutants on virus-host interactions, the BAC sequence needs to be removed from the viral genome which has historically be done through successive passages of the virus and natural removal of the BAC. The mutations need to rescued through the same process of BAC removal from the viral genome, which demenstrate there is no other viral function affected. 

Our reference MCMV genome is approximately 230kbp. Currently there are 7 samples obtained from the Microbial Genome Sequencing Center (MiGS) using pair end Illumina Sequencing, WT/ WT_611/ WT_611R/ RH_WT/ RH_WT_611/ RH_WT_611R/ BAC.
